This is the terminal commands:
1)PWD(Present Working Directory):It is used to find out th path of the current working directory.
how to use:
pwd

2)cd(Change Directory): It is used to navigate through directories.
using command:
cd /home/darvesh/Desktop
cd ..(used for move one directory up)
cd -(used to move to the previous directories) 

3)ls: This is used to view the contents of a directory.
using command:
ls /home/darvesh/Desktop
ls -R(will list all the files in the sub-directories as well)
ls -a(will show the hidden files)
ls -al(will list the files and directories with detailed like the permissions, size, owner,etc.)

4)cat(concatenate): It is used to list the contents of file
cat filename
cat -n filename(to view contents of a file with line numbers)
cat file1>file2(to copy contents of file1 to file2)
cat -s file1(will suppress related empty lines in output)
cat file1>>file2(Will append the contents of one file to the end of another file)

5)cp(copy):it is used to copy files from one directory to another
cp filename file_destination

6)mkdir(make directory): it is used to make new directory in any directory
mkdir directory_name

mkdir -p(it is used to create directory in between two existing directories)

7)rmdir(remove directory): It is used to remove particular directory
rmdir directory_name

8)rm(remove): it is used to remove a file
rm filename
rm -r(it is used to delete directory)

9)touch: it is used to create new blank file
touch filename

10)find: it is used to locate file in a given directory
find /home/ -name filename

11)grep: it is used will search for the word from a file
grep word filename

12)sudo: it is used to perform tasks that require administrative or root permissions

13)df: this command is used to get a report on the system's disk space usage.
df -m

14)echo: it is used to move some data into the file

echo "data">filename
echo "data">>filename(in this the data will be append)

15)mv: this is used to move file from one directory to another
mv filename directory_name

16)wc(word count): used to count the words in a file
wc filename
wc -l(counts the line)

17) chmod- Stand for change mode. the "chmod" command is used to change the access mode of a file.

18)diff- it allows you to compare two files line by line.
	->it can also compare the contents of directories.

19)free- it tells you how much free RAM memory do i have available on my Linux system.
	is there enough free memory to install and run new applications?

20)groups- it tells you the group name of which you belong.

21)gzip- Gzip is one of the most popular compression algorithms that allows you to reduce the size of a file and keep the original file mode, ownership.

22)netstat- This command can be used to list our all the network(socket)connections on a system.

23)rsync- Stand for "remote synchronisation". it efficiently sync files and directories between two hosts or machines.
