1)Difference between cookies and session?
2)What is HTTP request. How it is different from HTTPS?
3)Difference between client side and server side programming?
4)What is REST architecture?
5)What is gems in rails?

1. Difference between cookies and sessions

cookies
Cookies are stored on the local computer. 
Basically, it maintains user identification, meaning it tracks visitors record. 
It is less secure than session. 
It stores limited amount of data, and is maintained for a limited time.

sessions
Session is used for maintaining a dialogue between server and user. 
It is more secure because it is stored on the server, we cannot easily access it. 
It embeds cookies on the user computer. 
It stores unlimited data.

2. Difference Between HTTP and HTTPS
 
HTTP
Full form of HTTP is Hypertext Transfer Protocol. HTTP offers set of rules and standards which govern how any information can be transmitted on the World Wide Web. 
HTTP provides standard rules for web browsers & servers to communicate.

HTTP is an application layer network protocol which is built on top of TCP. HTTP uses Hypertext structured text which establishes the logical link between nodes containing text. 
It is also known as "stateless protocol" as each command is executed separately, without using reference of previous run command.

HTTPS
HTTPS stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure. It is highly advanced and secure version of HTTP. 
It uses the port no. 443 for Data Communication. It allows the secure transactions by encrypting the entire communication with SSL. 
It is a combination of SSL/TLS protocol and HTTP. It provides encrypted and secure identification of a network server.

HTTP also allows you to create a secure encrypted connection between the server and the browser. 
It offers the bi-directional security of Data. This helps you to protect potentially sensitive information from being stolen.

In HTTPS protocol SSL transactions are negotiated with the help of key-based encryption algorithm. 
This key is generally either 40 or 128 bits in strength.


3.Difference between client side and server side programming?

client side
It is the program that runs on the client machine (browser) and deals with the user interface/display and any other processing that can happen on client machine like reading/writing cookies.

1) Interact with temporary storage
2) Make interactive web pages
3) Interact with local storage
4) Sending request for data to server
5) Send request to server
6) work as an interface between server and user


server side

It is the program that runs on server dealing with the generation of content of web page.
1) Querying the database
2) Operations over databases
3) Access/Write a file on server.
4) Interact with other servers.
5) Structure web applications.
6) Process user input. For example if user input is a text in search box, run a search algorithm on data stored on server and send the results.


What is REST architecture?

REST
REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer and API stands for Application Program Interface.
REST is a software architectural style that defines the set of rules to be used for creating web services.
Web services which follow the REST architectural style are known as RESTful web services.
It allows requesting systems to access and manipulate web resources by using a uniform and predefined set of rules.
Interaction in REST based systems happen through Internet’s Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).

A Restful system consists of a:

client who requests for the resources.
server who has the resources.


What is gems in rails?

A gem is the equivalent to a plugin or an extension for the programming language ruby.

To be exact even rails is nothing more than a gem.  
A lot of gems are built on rails or other gems (they are dependent of said gem) or are standalone.

